Conclusion:

In this work, a new model, WARD-HTP is proposed to improve the accuracy of existing data-mining models for hurricane trajectory prediction. An Apriori-based hurricane trajectory prediction model similar to [1] was developed to demonstrate the value-add contributions of WARD-HTP. There are three unique contributions brought forth in the development of WARD-HTP. First, WARD-HTP enables the use of varied training-data time intervals. Whereas [1] uses hurricane trajectories from 1900-2000 as the training data, we use hurricane trajectoris from 1950-2000 and find a hit-rate increase of __[2] when using the same data as the paper and __[3] when using our own. 1950-2000 was selected as the training data interval to reduce the impact of long-term climate trends and possibly inaccurate historical hurricane recording methods. The second contribution of WARD-HTP is the introduction of weighted training data, or weighted assets (WA). Training data in WARD-HTP is weighted in reverse choronological order, so recent training trajectories have a higher support weight. Weighted training data in favor of recent trajectories furthers the goal of reducing the impact of historical factors on the model, as shown by a further hit rate improvement of __[3]. The third contribution of WARD-HTP is the usage of the Haversine distance formula for realistic distance (RD). The Haversine formula gives the distance in kilometers between two points over a "great circle" trajectory. Haversine distance is a more realistic distance formula between latitude-longtitude points over the Euclidean formula, as coordinates on the earth's surface do not constitute Euclidean space. Usage of the Haversine distance formula gave an additional __[4] hit rate improvement when combined with the previous two contributions.

Variable training data intervals, weighted training data and realistic distance are the primary contributions of WARD-HTP. WARD-HTP was tested on training data provided in HURDAT2 [5] as well as from [1] to show the robustability of the model to varying training data inputs. Both training datasets showed that the contributions of WARD-HTP result in a more precise hurricane trajectory prediction model than the current state-of-the-art. Experiments show that training data from 1950-2000 with weighted training data and Haversine distance resulted in a correctness hit-rate as high as __[6]. While flexibility in training data has been introduced in previous hurricane prediction models, it is to the knowledge of the authors that WARD-HTP is the first hurricane trajectory prediction model to use both weighted data and a real-world distance formula.

There are multiple areas to explore in this problem space with respect to future work. Experiments in this work show that all datasets have a subset of testing trajectories for which no rule could be matched. While [1] proposed an extrapolation methodology to recover from rule-miss incidents, more work must be done to reduce the number of non-matchable trajectories. Many of the mismatched trajectories are outliers with very little conformance to existing hurricane trends, as seen in previous figures [7]. Additionally, more experiments will be run on different inputs including training data from other regions such as the Pacific region. Approaches to further increasing the hit-rate of WARD-HTP will also be investigated. This may include alternative methodologies for defining training data weight.



( 1950-2000 was selected as the training data interval to reduce the impact of long-term climate trends and possibly inaccurate historical hurricane recording methods. )