Antecedent Flexibility:

Accuracy is the most important metric for a coherent hurricane trajectory prediction model. The hurricane trajectory prediction model proposed in this paper uses a "hit rate" to define its accuracy. The hit rate is the percentage of predictions deemed correct out of the total predictions attempted. A correct trajectory prediction is one with a sufficient pattern match between the actual terminal trajectory and the predicted terminal trajectory based on the consequent of the highest-fit rule determined by the model. While pattern matching against the rule consequent determines prediction correctness, a prediction is only possible when at least one matching rule is found. The rule matching phase of the trajectory prediction model is based on the potential rule's confidence and the rule's matching length with the current trajectory. However, some trajectories do not contain a nonzero matching length with any possible interesting rules. Therefore, flexibility is introduced into the rule matching function to allow for a "similar trajectory" length as opposed to an explicit matching length. 

Two trajectories are deemed similar if their points are within a distance threshold D and have a similar bearing (direction) within a threshold B. Various values of D and B were experimented upon to reduce the amount of rule-misses in the trajectory prediction model. Values of B up to 10 and values of D up to 450 were expected to provide a reduced number of rule-misses. However, despite enabling flexible rule-matching with a distance mismatch of up to 450km and a bearing mismatch of up to 10 degrees, the number of rule misses was not reduced in the testing data used (2001-2008 and 2001-2015). This is suspected to be caused by the fact that those trajectories which did not match any existing rules were outliers in the dataset. They did not match any other trajectories even by a relatively wide margin. Therefore, no reasonable relaxation on pattern matching constraints could procure an association rule to be used by those particular trajectories. In the following figure, one of the non-matching trajectories is compared against a subset of trajectories which included a match.

< Plot to show left-field trajectory >

In the above diagram, red trajectories are trajectories which successfully matched with a rule rule (note that not all of the matches are correct, and only 50% of matching trajectories are shown). Blue trajectories represent trajectories with which no matching rule was found. Many of these trajectories are clearly "against the grain" from existing trends. Note that trajectory bearing is also taken into account when determing a rule-fit, so a similar-appearing trajectory may not match any rules if its bearing is opposite from the candidate rule's bearing. Since antecedent flexibility was not able to reduce the number of trajectories with missed rules, this feature was disabled in the final product of the proposed hurricane trajectory prediction model. In the case of a rule-miss, trajectory point extrapolation is alternatively considered, along with the acknowledgement that the trajectory is an outlier and cannot be reliably predicted.