Comments on hit rate:

- we are trying to increase the percentage in a controlled way
- what does the percentage mean?

[Also can consult lecture slides on classification]	

Model Accuracy:

The quality of any hurricane trajectory prediction model is primarily measured by the correct prediction rate C. C is a percentage which referes to the number of accurate trajectory predictions relative to the total number of predictions attempted. To predict the trajectory of a hurricane, the proposed model first partitions an incoming test trajectory into the "initial" and "terminal" subtrajectories. To begin, the initial subtrajectory Ti is compared against the antecedents of all interesting association rules generated by the modified Apriori algorithm defined previously. The ideal rule-fit to Ti is determined by the rule's confidence combined with the rule's matching length (longest congruent matching subsequence) with Ti. These two values are incorporated into a single fitness function f, where f = 1 - e^(-mlen). First assume that there exists a rule R where the antecedent trajectory of R, Ta matches Ti more than any other association rule. In this case, the relationship between the testing initial trajectory and the rule database is a "hit". In case of a hit, the consequent of R, Rc is compared against the terminal subtrajectory Tt. As seen previously in [1], Rc and Tt are compared for prediction-correctness by inspecting the distance between the first N pairs of pairs, where N is the minimum cardinality of Rc and Tt. If all N pairs of points fit within a specified distance, the trajectory prediction is deemed correct. Varying approaches to determine intertrajectory distance are evaluated further in this work.

The scenario described defines the behavior of the prediction model in the event of a rule hit. However, some not all test-trajectories result in rule hits as shown by the outliers identified in figure (x). In the case where the test trajectory is an outlier, there is no matching interesting rule and the model deems this relationship between the trajectory and the rule database to be a "miss". Some works including [1] and (anyone else?) attempt to reconcile rule-miss incidents by extrapolating additional points of the missed trajectory. However, outlier trajectories in figure (x) show that this may not be reliable technique due to the total lack of conformity between outlier trajectories and the remainder of the dataset. Therefore, a key goal in hurricane trajectory prediction is to reduce the number of rule misses, and make no attempts to "guess" trajectories in case of a miss. For this reason, trajectories with no matching rule are not considered in the final accuracy evaluation of this work. We only evaluate the accuracy ratio of predictions where at least one sufficiently matching rule was found.

Apart from keeping non-predicted trajectories out of consideration, there are some criteria that must be considered when evaluating a trajectory prediction hit-rate. First, it must be noted that the rule-matching and prediction-checking steps both rely on fitness functions to match two trajectories together. These matches are never precise, and the development of accurate fitness functions are a continued research effort involving many subdisciplines [x] [y]. Mandating high-precision matches may cause the model constraints to be too rigid, which could result in a lower model accuracy rate and a lower model hit-rate. Meanwhile, very low-precision matching will cause excessively loose constraints, resulting in a high but unreliable hit-rate. Reliability is a key factor to consider in model hit-rate evaluation. This also applies to the values of minsup and minconf used in the Apriori/Rule-generation steps. Very high minsup and minconf will generate fewer patterns and rules. However, those trajectories which produce a correct prediction will be very reliable. As expected, if minsup and/or minconf are too low, the hit-rate of the model may be high but the "hits" generated by the model will have much less meaning. Therefore, while hit rate is a key criteria for hurricane trajectory prediction models including the one proposed in this work, the reliability of such a model is equally important. To preserve reliability, various solution techniques are evaluated to encourate the CONTROLLED improvement of model accuracy.