Weighted Training Data:

The proposed Hurricane Trajectory Prediction Model uses AprioriAll [1] against historical hurricane trajectory data to develop frequent trajectory patterns. These patterns are used to develop hurricane trajectory prediction rules, which are required by the rule-matching step of the model itself. The historical data is used to train the model for future trajectory prediction. In this section, we weigh the model training data such that more recent data introduces a higher support than older data. Weighing training data in favor of recent historical trajectories is anticipated to reduce the impact of long-term climate patterns and historical technological drawbacks with respect to hurricane trajectory analysis. Hurricane trajectories recorded in earlier generations may lack certain hurricane analysis technology, which could result in less accurate readings. Long-term climate trends are also likely to impact historical hurricane trajectories on a decade or century-scale. These two reasons lead to the investigation of weights in the model's association rule generation step.

Training data weighing is introduced by multiplying incoming training-data vectors by a constant value denoted weighing_scale. The value of weighing_scale is increased proportionally with respect to the size of the training database, until the weight reaches 1. The support of newfound patterns is multipied by the value of weighing_scale. Since the training data of the proposed model is sorted in chronological order, this means that patterns discovered from earlier trajectories will have a much lower support than patterns discovered more recently. In the following graphs, initial results from two weighing strategies are shown alongside an unweighed strategy for comparison purposes. The first weighing strategy increases the value of weighing_scale at each new trajectory read, until weighing_scale reaches 1. The second strategy only increases the value of weighing_scale when a new year is reached, so all trajectories from any particular year have the same weight. 

The results of the weighted training data strategy show that weighed training data results in fewer frequent patterns, fewer interesting rules and generally lower model accuracy. This effect is more pronounced for the index-weight strategy than the yearly-weight strategy. The displayed decrease in accuracy is expected to be a product of fewer rules and frequent patterns. Since the training data overall introduces patterns with lower support, fewer patterns will be generated. However, the patterns generated are much more significant as they are based on training data favored to recent trajectory patterns. Therefore, while the model hit-rate in the weighted approach is lower, it is expected that the hits provided by the weighted model are more accurate than the hits provided by the unweighted alternative.

< All of the variables are constant. 1950-2000, Haversine:450, Tuples, Extraps Ignored, all identical to Distance Formulas Section >